---
title: "Availability and Social Media"
excerpt: "Lately, I've been thinking a lot about how the ubiquitous connectivity is making us ignore a simple fact about our everyday lives: we don't need to be available for everyone at all times."
sitemap: false
---
Last week I noticed that not only me, but other people have been talking about how everyone thinks the world is available to them at all times, and how we contribute to that feeling, while we end up not being anywhere in the end. It is a little bit scary when people talk about [how turning on the flight mode made them feel *free* and *present*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GTPcC4jknM) during a convention, as if it was the great innovation of this century.
The discussion is not new, and even science has its say when it shows our [attention span  dropping](http://time.com/3858309/attention-spans-goldfish/). As this [*'availability culture'*](http://www.thethinkingstick.com/the-culture-of-availability/) rises, we become slaves of distractions and it is harder to accomplish what really matters.

As always, recognizing the problem is the first step. The social media market wants to keep you available for everyone a 100% of the time - just notice how many notifications a day you get from Facebook, Snapchat, WhatsApp and other social media. It is even worse when you check out that awkward WhatsApp group that has a bazillion people talking all day.

This Friday I had a colleague sending me a private message to check  if I had seen a group message from 4 hours before, knowing that both me and him were at work. Well, it has made me think about how this guy thinks I'm free to check Facebook all day, and about why on earth anyone would send anything urgent through a Facebook group message. Turns out it wasn't even urgent! The guy just *needed* me to give him attention because he *needed it so bad*.

I'm not sure about him, but I'm usually into the present moment - when I'm working, I'm working and when I'm cooking, I'm cooking. The French seem to be more concerned about it than any other country. Last year I recently read an article about how we should *[accept not living 'everything'](www.lemonde.fr/tant-de-temps/article/2015/06/19/patrick-viveret-il-faut-accepter-de-ne-pas-tout-vivre_4657892_4598196.html)*. The philosopher says that happiness comes from living in the moment. And by that he doesn't mean the same as the plain old *carpe diem*. His talking about being present as a whole in your life. For that, we need to stop living the thousands of possibilities on our smartphones to live the one reality we have right now.

As I started talking about the French, there's another subject that showed up in the media in 2014. It all started with [a law that would forbid French workers to open their professional e-mail accounts after 18h](http://www.slate.fr/economie/85825/employes-google-facebook-france-mails-deconnexion). Even though it ended being fake - when I worked in there my boss would actually send me e-mails during his vacation, on a Sunday, at midnight - the bottom line stays true for most of the French people I know. Whenever possible, they'll try and live their personal lives during their time off work. They'd say I was insane if I told them I have a WhatsApp group with my colleagues in Brazil, and that people really answer during weekends on completely unimportant subjects. They are not as OK as we are having their time and privacy taken away.

Although they're not as into that philosophical approach, in the US there are also people rethinking the time and privacy relationships within the social media. [This article](https://medium.com/swlh/how-technology-hijacks-peoples-minds-from-a-magician-and-google-s-design-ethicist-56d62ef5edf3#.sngf6hm9j) and the [Time Well Spent](http://timewellspent.io/)  movement by Tristan Harris shows us some of the strategies technology companies have been using to steal us our time and have us trapped in their apps or websites.

Even though we cannot really just unplug and stay all day on flight mode, it is important that we stop being available for others when we're not. Be it that colleague from ages ago or that tech company that developed an amazing app. What has helped me escape it a little bit is adapting some of the ideas on the [Trell Blog](blog.trello.com) for productivity.

First thing I tried was not to treat all the incoming tasks, but first add them to a 'backlog' and then prioritize before doing things. After that, not only I felt less anxious about being able to tackle all my tasks, but I could argue clearly on the ones I wouldn't or couldn't do. It may become a key tool to discuss your schedule with your manager.  Also, being clear to your peers whenever you are not available - preferably in a public way such as the e-mail provider calendar - might take you to the point where you no longer need to be on flight mode - others will do it for you.
