---
title: "Hello 2018!"
excerpt: "After some humongous changes in my life, I might be back to blogging..."
sitemap: false
---

It's been more than a year, so I guess an update is not uncalled for.
---
## Life Updates
*Spoiler alert*: I'm back to France to work at Enedis. I happenned to end up at Angers, about 70km away from Nantes - so quite close to where I had been for my exchange in 2013.

After almost a year at [Pagar.me](pagar.me), where I went from a recent graduate to a badass FraudBuster (please let me figure it that way), I got an amazing opportunity to go back to the Distribution Network market. If you know me, you might have heard me say about how far we're from having SmartGrids and all the incredible stuff new technologies have brought us on our local concessionaries. Altough, in France this not only is a thing, but the Smart Grid revolution is already an ongoing and industrial process. When they said to me I could work at that, I was thrilled.
I really loved working at Pagar.me, but this was simply my calling since I started graduation. A hard decision, but I wouldn't be true to myself if I didn't take this chance to align my reality to my goals.

The fact is that, right now, I've been in France for a little more than six months. And I'm simply loving it! I go to work just as motived as possible, ready to tackle anything and do all those calculations and figuring out the best solutions for our clients.

Other than that, as I had already been to college in France, adapting was just that easy. I'm not gonna lie and say I didn't freeze this winter, which I did, but I was happy to see the snow (for those who might not be sure, we do not have any in Brazil). Before you ask, no, I do not intend to visit Brazil anytime before next Xmas, but I got my family to come and we shared some really sweet moments together.

Lately I've not been very good at making regular updates to all my friends, which I'm guilty of. So I'll try to come up with more stuff this year.

Six months was a nice time to cool of and organize myself, so I'm trying to get out there and go and tackle some new (or not that new) projects.

## Hey, got you some links!
My new *thing* is financial independence, so I'm reading a lot of stuff and also reading a lot of it. Because the French simply love to make their stuff as complicated as possible. But that's not for this post.


As I got some real help from some of those, I feel like I should give you some links:

- [The Financial Diet](thefinancialdiet.com), they're so young. They also have a [youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSPYNpQ2fHv9HJ-q6MIMaPw)
- [Journey to Launch](journeytolaunch.com), her podcast is just so inspiring!
- [Me Poupe](mepoupenaweb.uol.com.br) who also has a great [youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8mDF5mWNGE-Kpfcvnn0bUg)
- [Gustavo Cerbasi](www.gustavocerbasi.com.br) and his [youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mSfchV-fgpPy-vuwML8_A). He is a real money guru in Brazil. He has been changing lifes for over 20 years now!
